For this exercise, we need to find the drop off rates and steps
where users drop off the least and most on buystuff.com.
To do this, we need to dig into our data.
Here is the data uploaded into Tableau.
When we look at the page dimension,
we can see four different pages;
the homepage, a search page,
a payment page, and a payment confirmation page.
These four pages aligned with an e-commerce sales funnel.
A website's visitors must land on a landing page,
the homepage, and then look for an item to purchase,
the search page before going to purchase the item,
payment page, and finally submitting
their payment information, payment confirmation page.
Once we know the events of interest,
we order the pages in Tableau in the order of the user events,
so home, search, payment, and payment confirmation.
After this, we can count the number of distinct events on each page.
Because this website has a simple flow,
every page is required of the user to complete a purchase.
Therefore, every page will be shown in the funnel,
and every page represents a user taking a new action.
Let's measure the count of distinct events.
Finally, to calculate the actual drop off,
we use a quick table calculation of percent change between counts or percent difference.
Looking at our chart,
we can now easily find the answers to the exercise questions.
Question 1 was the percent change between each page in activity,
which we can now see listed here.
Question 2 asked between which pages the users drop off the least?
The lowest number is 50 percent next to the search page.
That means about 50 percent of all users continued from the homepage to the search page.
Finally, question 3, between which pages or actions do users drop off the most?
The highest number is 92.5 percent.
Ninety two point five percent of users still in
the funnel drop off between the payment and the payment confirmation page.
This data doesn't tell us why the drop off rate is so high,
but it gives us a clue that we should investigate and iterate
on our product design if we want to improve funnel conversion.